VITETRIS - Tetris clone by Victor Nilsson

Homepage: http://victornils.net/tetris

Rotation, scoring, levels and speed should resemble the early Tetris games by
Nintendo, with the addition of a short lock delay which makes it possible to
play at higher levels.  (It does not make it possible to prevent the piece
from ever locking by abusing lock delay resets.)

BUILD AND INSTALL
-----------------

To build just run:
./configure && make

A single executable "tetris" should have been created, which may be moved
anywhere.

If anything goes wrong make sure you have basic development tools installed.
There are no required library dependencies (except libc).

For build options type:
./configure help

If you build with Xlib the game will pause automatically when your terminal
window loses focus.  It will also handle terminal resizing.

Game options and highscores are saved in .vitetris in your user home dir.

If the file /var/games/vitetris-hiscore exists and is readable, it is used as
a system-wide highscore file.  Highscores are always saved in .vitetris still,
merged with new scores (from other users) read from the system-wide file.

If you wish to change these filenames, look for CONFIG_FILENAME and
HISCORE_FILENAME in file.h.

HOW TO PLAY
-----------

To navigate in the menus, use the cursor keys, ENTER to proceed (or leave
a menu), and ESC to go back.

The first thing you want to do if you have a white background is to enter
"Options" and set "Term BG" to "white" (press right).

To change key bindings, go to "Input Setup".  To the left are keys used in
menus, to the right in-game keys.  Press ENTER to set a key, press ENTER again
to clear or reset to default, or press ESC to cancel.

If not explicitly set, the following in-game keys depend on some other key
binding (e.g. if UP is used for "Up", it is also used for "Rotate"):

	 Rotate  - Up
	 Rot cw  - A
	 Rot acw - B
	Softdrop - Dwn

"Rot cw" means "Rotate clockwise" and "acw" anticlockwise.

To pause in a single-player game, press P or ENTER.  Another special key is Q,
which quits immediatelly (be careful).

The display will be adjusted to the size of your terminal.  There are three
height modes: 20, 24 and 25.  If your terminal size is not detected, you can
set the width and height with command-line options, for example:
./tetris width=35 height=20

You can also hide the Top Scores or tetrominos statistics this way.

To see a list of all command-line options, type:
./tetris help

FAQ
---

1. Does it run on Windows?

Not really.  It works under cygwin, but the easiest way to play from a Windows
computer is probably to run it remotely using ssh, e.g. with PuTTY.

2. Why does the piece not move faster when I hold down a key?

As only key-press events are read, this depends on your keyboard
configuration.  To change the auto-repeat rate under X, run:
xset r rate DELAY RATE

DELAY is the number of milliseconds before auto-repeat starts (e.g. 150), RATE
is the number of repeats per second (e.g. 30).

On the console, kbdrate may be used:
kbdrate -d DELAY -r RATE

3. The "vi" in vitetris is for the vi editor, right?

I never thought about it that way until I got this question.  Sure, it is all
written in Vim.  But those two first letters are from my first name.
(Originally I thought about using a name with "vt" in it.)

CREDITS
-------

The original Tetris game was designed and programmed by Alexey Pajitnov in
1985.

The wiki at tetrisconcept.com has been a valuable resource.

tt (Tetris for Terminals) was written by Mike Taylor in 1989.

Testers: Hugo Fernbom and Andreas Carlsson (who has also hosted my files on
his wardrobe server).
